OOP - Object Oriented Programming

Advantages of OOP

Relates to real world
Flexibility to change
Modularity
Easy to Debug

Features of OOP

1. Encapsulation
2. Abstraction
3. Polymorphism (poly + morphism)
4. Inheritance

Type of Inheritance
1. Single Level
2. Multi Level
3. Multiple
4. Hybrid
5. Hierarchical
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Problem Statement
The final exams of class IX of the AG School have concluded and the evaluation of the answer scripts is underway. The marks entry for each student must be made into an application.

Write a C# program to enable the operations team of the school to enter marks and publish results. In this challenge, the following are the requirements:

Task 1
The number of students for whom marks entry needs to be done should be provided as an input from the user
The Name and Roll Number of each student should be taken as input from the user and stored for easy retrieval.
The students of class IX have been evaluated on the following subjects:
Math
Science
English
Language
Social Studies
The marks in each of the subject should be taken as input from the user and stored.

The application should be able:
Find the total marks scored by each student and store them.
Find the top scorer in the class and display his name and Roll Number on the screen.
Find the average marks of the students in the class in each subject and store them. - Find the number of students who have cleared the examination and display their name and Roll No.

Task 2
Find the number of students who needs to mandatorily repeat the examination and display their name and Roll No. The pass mark for each subject is 35, which means that to pass the exam, a student needs to score at least 35 in all of the five subjects.

Task 3
Based on average marks scored, each student is graded. The grading strategy is as follows:
Average Marks >=95 – ‘A’
Average Marks >=80 and <90 – ‘B’
Average Marks >=70 and <80 – ‘C’
Average Marks >=60 and <70 – ‘D’
Average Marks >=50 and <60 – ‘E’
Average Marks <50 – ‘F’

Task 4
Generate the grade, store it and display the grade for each student along with their total and average marks.

Generate a score card for a student based on his Roll No. which should contain the following details:
Name
Roll No.
Subject names and marks
Total marks obtained
Grade achieved